README.md, before:

# Mini-State-Machine
> A tiny Finite State Machine

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/perry-mitchell/mini-state-machine.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/perry-mitchell/mini-state-machine) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/mini-state-machine.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mini-state-machine)

## About

State machines are extremely useful pieces of functionality that ensure some state of a custom system. Using state machines (or _Finite State Machines_) allows you to define states for a system and all possible transitions between those states, ensuring the system follows only a certain amount of paths between states. An attempt to deviate from the allowed paths will always result in an error (as well as the initial state being preserved).

### Why

Existing solutions were a bit too bloated for my use case - I needed a small and functional state machine with asynchronous transitions. Mini-State-Machine is my take on the bare minimum. If you have suggestions on how I could make it smaller, please create an issue!

Currently the NodeJS version is **less than 5kb minified!**

### Usage

Usage is simple: Create a state machine instance and you're ready to go!

```javascript
const { createStateMachine } = require("mini-state-machine");

const sm = createStateMachine({
    initial: "hidden",
    transitions: [
        { name: "show", from: "hidden", to: "shown" },
        { name: "load", from "shown", to: "loaded" },
        { name: "hide", from: "*", to: "hidden" }
    ]
});

await sm.transition("show");
sm.state; // "shown"

await sm.transition("show"); // Exception: No path for this transition
```

Event handlers can be attached so each transition can be watched using callbacks. Transitions can be **cancelled** in the `"before"` and `"leave"` callback types by either returning `false` or throwing an error (or rejecting a `Promise`).

```javascript
sm.on("before", "show", () => {
    if (someTest()) {
        // cancel show
        return false;
    }
});

sm.on("leave", "hidden", () => {
    throw new Error("Some error");
    // or
    return Promise.reject(new Error("Some error"));
});
```

_By throwing an error, the original `transition()` call will be rejected with that error._

The methods `off(type, stateOrTransitionName, callback)` and `once(type, stateOrTransitionName, callback)` are also available and function like normal event emitter properties. `on()` and `once` also return an Object that contains a `remove` property method, which removes the listener when called.

Check out the [API documentation](API.md) for more information.

#### Checking State

You can check the current state by using `sm.state`. For convenience you can also use `sm.is("someState")`.

You can also check whether a transition is possible by calling `sm.can("show")`, or if it is impossible by calling `sm.cannot("hide")`.

#### Event Lifecycle

The events for a transition occur in the following order:

 * **before** _transition_ (cancelable)
 * **leave** _state_ (cancelable)
 * **enter** _state_
 * **after** _transition_

Returning a `Promise` in any of these delays the transition. The callbacks for before-transition and leave-state processes are called serially, which means that a failure or delay in one will affect the following callbacks (a failure meaning that they will not be called at all). The callbacks for enter-state and after-transition, however, are called in a parallel manner so that they do not delay or affect each other.

The exact time at which the state is changed is between **leave-state** and **enter-state**, and once the enter-state procedure has been started it is already to late to cancel the transition.

## Installation

Run the following to install:

```
npm install mini-state-machine --save
```

_This library supports **NodeJS 6** as a minimum compatible version_.

### Usage in the browser

The default `main` path in the `package.json` is for Node, but a precompiled web version can be had at `mini-state-machine/dist/msm.web.js`. The web version uses the UMD package system, and exports a library called `MSM`. You can use `MSM.createStateMachine` to create state machines.

The browser version is built targeting Internet Explorer 11 as a minimum compatible browser.

Commit message:

Add table for history properties description

README.md, after:

# Mini-State-Machine
> A tiny Finite State Machine

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/perry-mitchell/mini-state-machine.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/perry-mitchell/mini-state-machine) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/mini-state-machine.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mini-state-machine)

## About

State machines are extremely useful pieces of functionality that ensure some state of a custom system. Using state machines (or _Finite State Machines_) allows you to define states for a system and all possible transitions between those states, ensuring the system follows only a certain amount of paths between states. An attempt to deviate from the allowed paths will always result in an error (as well as the initial state being preserved).

### Why

Existing solutions were a bit too bloated for my use case - I needed a small and functional state machine with asynchronous transitions. Mini-State-Machine is my take on the bare minimum. If you have suggestions on how I could make it smaller, please create an issue!

Currently the NodeJS version is **less than 5kb minified!**

### Usage

Usage is simple: Create a state machine instance and you're ready to go!

```javascript
const { createStateMachine } = require("mini-state-machine");

const sm = createStateMachine({
    initial: "hidden",
    transitions: [
        { name: "show", from: "hidden", to: "shown" },
        { name: "load", from "shown", to: "loaded" },
        { name: "hide", from: "*", to: "hidden" }
    ]
});

await sm.transition("show");
sm.state; // "shown"

await sm.transition("show"); // Exception: No path for this transition
```

Event handlers can be attached so each transition can be watched using callbacks. Transitions can be **cancelled** in the `"before"` and `"leave"` callback types by either returning `false` or throwing an error (or rejecting a `Promise`).

```javascript
sm.on("before", "show", () => {
    if (someTest()) {
        // cancel show
        return false;
    }
});

sm.on("leave", "hidden", () => {
    throw new Error("Some error");
    // or
    return Promise.reject(new Error("Some error"));
});
```

_By throwing an error, the original `transition()` call will be rejected with that error._

The methods `off(type, stateOrTransitionName, callback)` and `once(type, stateOrTransitionName, callback)` are also available and function like normal event emitter properties. `on()` and `once` also return an Object that contains a `remove` property method, which removes the listener when called.

Check out the [API documentation](API.md) for more information.

#### Checking State

You can check the current state by using `sm.state`. For convenience you can also use `sm.is("someState")`.

You can also check whether a transition is possible by calling `sm.can("show")`, or if it is impossible by calling `sm.cannot("hide")`.

#### History

You can get the entire history of the state machine by calling `sm.getHistory()`. This method is expensive as it clones (using JSON) the entire history collection before returning it.

Each history item will conform to the following structure:

| Property      | Type          | Description                                |
|---------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------|
| tsStart       | Number        | The timestamp at which the transition started. |
| tsEnd         | Number        | The timestamp at which the transition ended. |
| state         | String        | The state that was set at the end of the transition. |
| previous      | String        | The previous state before the transition.  |
| transition    | String        | The transition name.                       |

#### Event Lifecycle

The events for a transition occur in the following order:

 * **before** _transition_ (cancelable)
 * **leave** _state_ (cancelable)
 * **enter** _state_
 * **after** _transition_

Returning a `Promise` in any of these delays the transition. The callbacks for before-transition and leave-state processes are called serially, which means that a failure or delay in one will affect the following callbacks (a failure meaning that they will not be called at all). The callbacks for enter-state and after-transition, however, are called in a parallel manner so that they do not delay or affect each other.

The exact time at which the state is changed is between **leave-state** and **enter-state**, and once the enter-state procedure has been started it is already to late to cancel the transition.

## Installation

Run the following to install:

```
npm install mini-state-machine --save
```

_This library supports **NodeJS 6** as a minimum compatible version_.

### Usage in the browser

The default `main` path in the `package.json` is for Node, but a precompiled web version can be had at `mini-state-machine/dist/msm.web.js`. The web version uses the UMD package system, and exports a library called `MSM`. You can use `MSM.createStateMachine` to create state machines.

The browser version is built targeting Internet Explorer 11 as a minimum compatible browser.
